---
title: BestCoder
author: Semprathlon / Simfae Dean
tags:
  - Bestcoder
categories:
  - ACM-ICPC
  - Programing
abbrlink: 561c3d53
date: 2015-08-22 22:38:50
---
[1001 Victor and Machine](http://bestcoder.hdu.edu.cn/contests/contest_showproblem.php?cid=619&pid=1001)
====
Time Limit: 2000/1000 MS (Java/Others)  Memory Limit: 131072/65536 K (Java/Others)    
> * Problem Description   
> Victor has a machine. When the machine starts up, it will pop out a ball immediately. After that, the machine will pop out a ball every w seconds. However, the machine has some flaws, every time after x seconds of process the machine has to turn off for y seconds for maintenance work. At the second the machine will be shut down, it may pop out a ball. And while it's off, the machine will pop out no ball before the machine restart.   
> Now, at the 0 second, the machine opens for the first time. Victor wants to know when the n-th ball will be popped out. Could you tell him?   
> 
> * Input   
> The input contains several test cases, at most 100 cases.   
> Each line has four integers x, y, w and n. Their meanings are shown above。   
>  $latex 1\leq x,y,w,n\leq 100 $ .   
> 
> * Output   
> For each test case, you should output a line contains a number indicates the time when the n-th ball will be popped out.   
> 
> * Sample Input   
> 2 3 3 3   
> 98 76 54 32   
> 10 9 8 100   
> 
> * Sample Output   
> 10   
> 2664   
> 939   

n-1的问题，自己刚开始出了点差错：
[code lang="java"]
/** Aug 22, 2015 7:03:37 PM
 * PrjName:Bc52-01
 * @author Semprathlon
 */
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;
public class Main {

    /**
     * @param args
     */
    public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException{
        // TODO Auto-generated method stub
        StreamTokenizer in=new StreamTokenizer(new BufferedInputStream(System.in));
        PrintWriter out=new PrintWriter(System.out);
        while(in.nextToken()!=StreamTokenizer.TT_EOF){
            int x=(int)in.nval;
            in.nextToken();
            int y=(int)in.nval;
            in.nextToken();
            int w=(int)in.nval;
            in.nextToken();
            int n=(int)in.nval;
            if (n==1){
                out.println(0);continue;
            }
            if (w&gt;x){
                out.println((n-1)*(x+y));continue;
            }
            else if (w==x){
                out.println((n-1)/2*(x+y)+(n-1)%2*x);continue;
            }
            else{
                int tmp=(x+w)/w;
                out.println((n-1)/tmp*(x+y)+(n-1)%tmp*w);continue;
            }
        }
        out.flush();
        out.close();
    }

}
[/code]